Refactor all the RegisterSignedStatement workflows (#51)
ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-scrapi: draft-ietf-scitt-scrapi.md

This endpoint is used to discover the capabilities and current configuration of a transparency service implementing this specification.

> The Transparency Service responds with a dictionary of configuration elements.

Reviewer: Dictionary or [CBOR map](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8949.html#section-3.1-2.12)?
```suggestion
The Transparency Service responds with a CBOR map of configuration elements.
```

Reviewer 2: Probably CBOR map, but then `Maps are also called tables, dictionaries...` so... :)

Reviewer: Are we agreeing to use Map, as that's the primary term in [RFC8949](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8949.html#section-3.1-2.12), and just noting dictionary is not conceptually wrong, just not precise? 

Searching https://www.google.com/search?q=cbor+dict brings up github bugs, while 
Searching https://www.google.com/search?q=cbor+map brings up cbor.io and other ietf references in the top hits.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I was quoting from the link in your first comment, but I agree that using CBOR map consistently throughout the document is clearly preferable.

Payload (in CBOR diagnostic notation)

18([                 ; COSE_Sign1 structure with tag 18
  h'44A123BEEFFACE', ; Protected header (example bytes)
  {},                ; Unprotected header

>   {                  ; Payload - CBOR dict

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  {                  ; Payload - CBOR map
```

Authentication MAY be implemented for this endpoint.
See notes on detached payloads below.

> This endpoint is used to instruct a Transparency Service to register a
> Signed Statement on its log. Since typical log implementations take
> many seconds or even longer to reach finality this API has an
> asynchronous mode which returns a locator which can be used to check
> the status of the registration asynchronously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This endpoint instructs a Transparency Service to register a Signed Statement on its log.
Since log implementations may take many seconds or longer to reach finality, this API provides an asynchronous mode that returns a locator that can be used to check the registration's status asynchronously.
```

> The following is a non-normative example of a HTTP request to register
> a Signed Statement:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of an HTTP request to register a Signed Statement:
```

])
~~~

If the `payload` is detached, the Transparency Service depends on the client's authentication context in the Registration Policy.
If the `payload` is attached, the Transparency Service depends on both the client's authentication context (if present) and the verification of the Signed Statement in the Registration Policy.

The Registration Policy for the Transparency Service MUST be applied
before any additional processing is performed.

Response:

One of the following:

#### Status 201 - Registration is successful

> In cases where the Transparency Service is able to mint receipts in a
> reasonable time, it may return the receipt directly.
> 
> Along with the receipt the Transparency Service MAY return a locator
> in the HTTP response `Location` header, provided the locator is a valid
> URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Transparency Service is able to mint receipts within a reasonable time, it may return the receipt directly.

Along with the receipt the Transparency Service MAY return a locator in the HTTP response `Location` header, provided the locator is a valid URL.
```

])
~~~

If the `payload` is detached, the Transparency Service depends on the client's authentication context in the Registration Policy.
If the `payload` is attached, the Transparency Service depends on both the client's authentication context (if present) and the verification of the Signed Statement in the Registration Policy.

> The details of Registration Policy are out of scope for this document.

Reviewer: Moved below
```suggestion
```

> The Registration Policy for the Transparency Service MUST be applied
> before any additional processing is performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Registration Policy for the Transparency Service MUST be applied before any additional processing.
```

])
~~~

If the `payload` is detached, the Transparency Service depends on the client's authentication context in the Registration Policy.

> If the `payload` is attached, the Transparency Service depends on both the client's authentication context (if present) and the verification of the Signed Statement in the Registration Policy.

Reviewer 3: What does "depends on ... authentication context" mean in this context?

Reviewer 2: I think that implies "the response of/the behaviour of the TS", and it is trying to say that if the payload is detached (and therefore unavailable to the service), the TS does not (cannot!) use it as an input in its decision/state change, instead it solely considers the client authentication context.

Thinking about it, and going back to the earlier discussion about unprotected headers, I think I have changed my mind about detached payloads from "weird, but why not" to "oh no", because the lack of verification means that _even the protected headers_ are unauthenticated in this case.

Which opens two cans of worms:

1. All the same issues as unprotected headers, but worse, because now dependent on whether the payload is detached or not.
2. Registration policy needs to be carefully written to take into account whether the payload was detached or not, and must consider, if at all, the protected headers quite differently in that case.

Reviewer 4: I understood authentication context to mean the authorization obtained by the submiter of the statement (which is often not going to be the issuer).

These lines just acknowlege that the minimal cryptographic verification of a statement with a detached payload is not possible on registration. While this is an issue for the scitt arch registration section's position on minimal registration checks, I am totally fine with this being so. It is very clear to me what it means for registration time checks.

A concrete example of registering a statement that has a detached payload and interesting verification would be registration of a signed statement that was a [COSE Receipt](https://cose-wg.github.io/draft-ietf-cose-merkle-tree-proofs/draft-ietf-cose-merkle-tree-proofs.html). Why would I want to do this ? To record the receipt I relied on from some other decision and which had to be *stripped* from its logical home in the unprotected headers of a Transparent Statement.

In this case:
* The payload is detached
* The proof material that is used to re-produce the payload is contained in the un protected headers and so can not be registered (unless we do the nested statement thing)

However, verification is rigorously defined via profiles. *Any* proof that recreates the payload bytes is valid and should result in a positive verification result. 

That the payload is detached is a security enforcing property. The payload, however it is obtained is always "just bytes". The transparent statement unprotected headers case was particularly hard because the headers were *not* opaque, and could not reliably be handled as "just bytes".

Reviewer 2: @robinbryce as you point out, this is not the only way to make a receipt transparent (and does not work if you are trying to make transparent a set of receipts). Making it (or them) part of the payload avoids this special case, and preserves the rest of the context.

> The proof material that is used to re-produce the payload is contained in the un protected headers and so can not be registered (unless we do the nested statement thing)

That does not prevent verification of the signed statement by the TS though? We explicitly allow x5chain in the unprotected header, which may be necessary to verify Signed Statements with a payload. The unprotected evidence is not included in the ledger/counter-signed, but the protected header _is_ authenticated.

The current wording says that a TS accepting a statement with a detached payload _does not_ authenticate it, and so does not authenticate the protected header. Am I getting this wrong?

Reviewer 4: So first please note I just refer to receipts here because they are a handy concrete example for a real use of detached payloads.  I am not looking for "special treatment" for registration of statements that happen to be receipts and I'm not looking to have the tail wag the dog. 

> That does not prevent verification of the signed statement by the TS though?

I think it does. Having the proof material is the only way to produce the detatched payload. To verify the cose signature, the detached payload must first be "re attached".

> The current wording says that a TS accepting a statement with a detached payload does not authenticate it, and so does not authenticate the protected header. Am I getting this wrong?

I think that is correct, and in the case of a receipt is also fine. A receipt is always in reference to *some other* signed statement. It can only verify inclusion of something in a log it can't be "wrong" in that sense, and its issuer is the log itself. A receipts presence in another log says *nothing* about the validity or verification status of that receipt. In the specific case of receipts (which have well defined verification semantics) the whole notion of registration time checks seems redundant, and - for some proof types - actively un helpful. 

The problem here is with the arch: specifically the hard fought and long discussed minimal registration checks

https://ietf-wg-scitt.github.io/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture.html#name-registration-of-signed-stat

Particularly "TS Signed Statement Verification and Validation: The Transparency Service MUST perform signature verification per"

And I *think* that means what we say in 227 & 228 can't actually be allowed by the current arc ?

I think the TL;DR of the prevailing opinion is that statements are meaningless to relying parties and auditors and so on, unless some kind of minimal registration checks are always performed.

I have always disagreed with that opinion. Those that want strong enforcement are free to do so with what ever registration policies they define, including one that matches the current minimal requirements. The challenge with that was that then the arch depends for its trust model on something that is explicitly out of scope. I understood those objections. I just didn't aree with them :-). Where we landed was the very watered down minimal registration requirements we have today. I'm not sure that anyone was actually "happy" with that outcome. I can believe that some TS implementations will have very rigorous registration requirements indeed. Ours is at the opposite end of the spectrum.

In the case of registering a statement with a detached payload, a receipt is, in my opinion, an example of a signed statement that does not benefit from registration time checks at all - beyond the authorization of the *submitter* to call RegisterSignedStatement

Reviewer 4: Yep, cose hash envelope is going to be the right answer for all cases where the desire to detach is driven by payload size. I agree with this change. Additionally, I would like to avoid "banning" registering statements with detached payloads.

Reviewer: > Additionally, I would like to avoid "banning" registering statements with detached payloads.

Fair, since COSE supports detached, I don't think we need to explicitly ban/block. 
Do we want to delete these two lines, and move forward with #55 as the default for copy/paste simplicity of implementors?

Reviewer 2: > Do we want to delete these two lines, and move forward with https://github.com/ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-scrapi/issues/55 as the default for copy/paste simplicity of implementors?

That sounds good to me.

Reviewer: We can either delete these lines here, or resolve in #55 if we want to finish up this PR.
Deferring to folks in the next Editors Meeting as I'll be on vacation.

])
~~~

> If the `payload` is detached, the Transparency Service depends on the
> authentication context of the client in the Registration Policy.
> If the `payload` is attached, the Transparency Service depends on both
> the authentication context of the client (if present), and the
> verification of the Signed Statement in the Registration Policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `payload` is detached, the Transparency Service depends on the client's authentication context in the Registration Policy.
If the `payload` is attached, the Transparency Service depends on both the client's authentication context (if present) and the verification of the Signed Statement in the Registration Policy.
```

])
~~~

> The Registration Policy for the Transparency Service MUST be applied

Author: Yes I already toyed with that during my drafting and only didn't do it to keep the PR small. So I'm convinced, I'll push an update shortly

> The Registration Policy for the Transparency Service MUST be applied

Author: Update pushed

~~~

The response contains the Receipt for the Signed Statement.
Fresh Receipts may be requested through the resource identified in the Location header.

#### Status 202 - Registration is running

> In cases where the registration request is accepted but the Transparency Service is not able to mint Receipts in a reasonable time, it returns a locator for the registration operation and a status code indicating the status of the operation, as in this non-normative
> example:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases where the registration request is accepted but the Transparency Service is not able to mint Receipts in a reasonable time, it returns a locator for the registration operation and a status code indicating the status of the operation, as in this non-normative example:

```

~~~

The response contains the Receipt for the Signed Statement.
Fresh Receipts may be requested through the resource identified in the Location header.

#### Status 202 - Registration is running

In cases where the registration request is accepted but the Transparency Service is not able to mint Receipts in a reasonable time, it returns a locator for the registration operation and a status code indicating the status of the operation, as in this non-normative
example:

~~~ cbor-diag
{
  / locator / "OperationID": "67f89d5f0042e3ad42...35a1f190",
  / status /  "Status": "running",
}
~~~

`Status` must be one of the following:
* "running" - the operation is still in progress
* "succeeded" - the operation succeeded and the Receipt is ready

`OperationID` is Transparency Service specific and MUST not be used for
querying status in any Transparency Service other than the one that
returned it.

If the `OperationID` is a valid URL, it MAY be included as a `Location` header in the HTTP response.

> Transparency Services MAY clean up old operation records to manage
> practical implementation concerns. The length of validity of the
> `OperationID` is Transparency Service specific but at minimum
> the Transparency Service MUST maintain a record of every running or
> succeeded operation until at least one client has fetched the completed
> Receipt.
> 
> The Transparency Service MAY include a `Retry-After` header in the HTTP
> response to help with polling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transparency Services MAY clean up old operation records to manage practical implementation concerns.
The length of validity of the `OperationID` is Transparency Service specific but at minimum, the Transparency Service MUST maintain a record of every running or successful operation until at least one client has fetched the completed Receipt.

The Transparency Service MAY include a `Retry-After` header in the HTTP response to help with polling.
```

~~~

The response contains the Receipt for the Signed Statement.
Fresh Receipts may be requested through the resource identified in the Location header.

#### Status 202 - Registration is running

In cases where the registration request is accepted but the Transparency Service is not able to mint Receipts in a reasonable time, it returns a locator for the registration operation and a status code indicating the status of the operation, as in this non-normative
example:

~~~ cbor-diag
{
  / locator / "OperationID": "67f89d5f0042e3ad42...35a1f190",
  / status /  "Status": "running",
}
~~~

`Status` must be one of the following:
* "running" - the operation is still in progress
* "succeeded" - the operation succeeded and the Receipt is ready

`OperationID` is Transparency Service specific and MUST not be used for
querying status in any Transparency Service other than the one that
returned it.

> If the `OperationID` is a valid URL, it MAY be included as a `Location`
> header in the HTTP response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `OperationID` is a valid URL, it MAY be included as a `Location` header in the HTTP response.
```

~~~

The response contains the Receipt for the Signed Statement.
Fresh Receipts may be requested through the resource identified in the Location header.

#### Status 202 - Registration is running

> In cases where the registration request is accepted but the
> Transparency Service is not able to mint Receipts in a reasonable time,
> it returns a locator for the registration operation and a status code
> indicating the status of the operation, as in this non-normative

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases where the registration request is accepted but the Transparency Service is not able to mint Receipts in a reasonable time, it returns a locator for the registration operation and a status code indicating the status of the operation, as in this non-normative
```

~~~

The response contains the Receipt for the Signed Statement.
Fresh Receipts may be requested through the resource identified in the Location header.

#### Status 202 - Registration is running

> In cases where the registration request is accepted but the Transparency Service is not able to mint Receipts in a reasonable time, it returns a locator for the registration operation and a status code indicating the status of the operation, as in this non-normative example:
> 
> ~~~ cbor-diag
> {
>   / locator / "OperationID": "67f89d5f0042e3ad42...35a1f190",
>   / status /  "Status": "running",
> }
> ~~~

Reviewer 3: This feedback is a minor point of contention, but given a previous use above of locator is a locator and this is ID for the operation that could be appended to maybe kinda form a locator, perhaps call it what it is to minimize confusion?

```suggestion
In cases where the registration request is accepted but the Transparency Service is not able to mint Receipts in a reasonable time, it returns an identifier for the registration operation and a status code indicating the status of the operation, as in this non-normative example:

~~~ cbor-diag
{
  / identifier / "OperationID": "67f89d5f0042e3ad42...35a1f190",
  / status /  "Status": "running",
}
~~~
```

Reviewer: locator is more generic, which can include an ID, while an ID isn't _necessarily_ a locator.
It's the fun topic of [Separating Identity from Location](https://stevelasker.blog/2021/09/24/separating-identity-from-location/) and [Decoupling Location from Identity - Is this in the scope of purl?](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/127#top)

Reviewer 2: > Suggesting we keep locator

+1

`Status` must be one of the following:

- "running" - the operation is still in progress

> - "succeeded" - the operation succeeded and the Receipt is ready

Reviewer 3: If we are moving to CBOR, will these be encoded strings with the words `running` or `succeeded` or some integer lookup? The latter seems more idiomatic and conducive to CBOR, why add strings in the mix if we are moving away from JSON?

`OperationID` is Transparency Service-specific and MUST not be used for querying status in any Transparency Service other than the one that returned it.

If the `OperationID` is a valid URL, it MAY be included as a `Location` header in the HTTP response.

> Transparency Services do not guarantee retention of operation IDs for a period of time or the entirety of its lifecycle. A Transparency MAY delete operation records and some operation IDs lookups MAY return error XYZ at one time even though they were valid in the past.
> The length of validity of the `OperationID` is Transparency Service specific, but at a minimum, the Transparency Service MUST maintain a record of every running or successful operation until at least one client has fetched the completed Receipt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transparency Services do not guarantee the retention of operation IDs for the entirety of their lifecycle.
A Transparency MAY delete operation records, and some operation ID lookups MAY return error 404, even though they were valid in the past.
The length of validity of the `OperationID` is Transparency Service specific.
Still, the Transparency Service MUST maintain a record of every running or successful operation until at least one client has fetched the completed Receipt.
```

The Transparency Service MAY include a `Retry-After` header in the HTTP response to help with polling.

~~~ http-message
HTTP/1.1 202 Accepted

Location: https://transparency.example/operations/67f8...f190

Content-Type: application/cbor
Retry-After: <seconds>

{
  / locator / "OperationID": "67f89d5f0042e3ad42...35a1f190",
  / status /  "Status": "running",
}
~~~

> The response contains a reference to the running operation which is attempting to Register the Signed Statement.

Reviewer 3: Are we talking about ID, why not just say so?

```suggestion
The response contains an ID referencing the running operation for Signed Statement Registration.
```

~~~

The response contains the Receipt for the Signed Statement.
Fresh Receipts may be requested through the resource identified in the Location header.

#### Status 202 - Registration is running

In cases where the registration request is accepted but the Transparency Service is not able to mint Receipts in a reasonable time, it returns a locator for the registration operation and a status code indicating the status of the operation, as in this non-normative example:

~~~ cbor-diag
{
  / locator / "OperationID": "67f89d5f0042e3ad42...35a1f190",
  / status /  "Status": "running",
}
~~~

`Status` must be one of the following:

- "running" - the operation is still in progress
- "succeeded" - the operation succeeded and the Receipt is ready

> `OperationID` is Transparency Service specific and MUST not be used for
> querying status in any Transparency Service other than the one that
> returned it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`OperationID` is Transparency Service-specific and MUST not be used for querying status in any Transparency Service other than the one that returned it.
```

If the `OperationID` is a valid URL, it MAY be included as a `Location` header in the HTTP response.

> Transparency Services MAY clean up old operation records to manage practical implementation concerns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transparency Services MAY clean up old operation records to manage implementation concerns.
```

Reviewer 3: What does clean up mean here? The previous and proposed wording does not make it clear to me what is happening exactly and why it matter?

This is just spitballing, but I would break down what this means for an implementer of a service or a client.

```suggestion
Transparency Services do not guarantee retention of operation IDs for a period of time or the entirety of its lifecycle. A Transparency MAY delete operation records and some operation IDs lookups MAY return error XYZ at one time even though they were valid in the past.
```

> The length of validity of the `OperationID` is Transparency Service specific but at minimum, the Transparency Service MUST maintain a record of every running or successful operation until at least one client has fetched the completed Receipt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The length of validity of the `OperationID` is Transparency Service specific, but at a minimum, the Transparency Service MUST maintain a record of every running or successful operation until at least one client has fetched the completed Receipt.
```

The Transparency Service MAY include a `Retry-After` header in the HTTP response to help with polling.

~~~ http-message
HTTP/1.1 202 Accepted

> Location: https://transparency.example/operations\
> /67f89d5f0042e3ad42...35a1f190

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Location: https://transparency.example/operations/67f8...f190
```

  / status /  "Status": "running",
}
~~~

`Status` must be one of the following:
* "running" - the operation is still in progress
* "succeeded" - the operation succeeded and the Receipt is ready

`OperationID` is Transparency Service specific and MUST not be used for
querying status in any Transparency Service other than the one that
returned it.

If the `OperationID` is a valid URL, it MAY be included as a `Location`
header in the HTTP response.

Transparency Services MAY clean up old operation records to manage
practical implementation concerns. The length of validity of the
`OperationID` is Transparency Service specific but at minimum
the Transparency Service MUST maintain a record of every running or
succeeded operation until at least one client has fetched the completed
Receipt.

The Transparency Service MAY include a `Retry-After` header in the HTTP
response to help with polling.

~~~ http-message
HTTP/1.1 202 Accepted

Location: https://transparency.example/operations\
/67f89d5f0042e3ad42...35a1f190

Content-Type: application/cbor
Retry-After: <seconds>

{
  / locator / "OperationID": "67f89d5f0042e3ad42...35a1f190",

>   / status /  "Status": "running",

Reviewer 4: Do we really need status if we have 201 vs 202 ? Is there any other value other than "running" ?

Author: 201 returns the finished Receipt. 202 returns an in-progress indicator.

Reviewer 4: I see the need for status now I understand what is going on with the async operations better

Reviewer 4: objection withdrawn

}
~~~

### Check Registration

> Authentication MAY be implemented for this endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

As per #52, there is mostly consensus around specifying this once in the document rather than per endpoint.

running registration:

Request:

~~~ http-message
GET /operations/67f89d5f0042e3ad42...35a1f190, HTTP/1.1
Host: transparency.example
Accept: application/cbor
~~~

Response:

One of the following:

#### Status 200 - Operation complete

_Success case_

If the operation is complete and it _succeeded_, the Transparency
Service returns a `status` of "succeeded" along with a locator which
can be used to fetch the Receipt.

`EntryID` is Transparency Service specific and MUST not be used for
fetching Receipts in any Transparency Service other than the one that
returned it.

If the `EntryID` is a valid URL, it MAY be included as a `Location`
header in the HTTP response.

~~~ http-message
HTTP/1.1 200 Ok

Location: https://transparency.example/entries\
/67ed41f1de6a...cfc158694ed0befe

Content-Type: application/cbor

{
  / locator / "EntryID": "67f89d5f0042e3ad42...35a1f190",
  / status /  "Status": "succeeded",
}
~~~

_Failure case_

If the operation is complete and it _failed_, the Transparency Service
returns a `status` of "failed" and an optional {{RFC9290}} Concise
Problem Details object to explain the failure.

~~~ http-message

> HTTP/1.1 200 Ok

Reviewer 4: oh eww, I understand. but eew. Is considered "bad" to treat the status for the specific http request to pertain to the overall async action ?

Author: Yes, it was discussed a lot and came down fairly heavily on the 'the response is to the request, which succeeded'. It successfully tells you the lro has failed.

It's far from necessary to stick a whole problem details in there. It could just be a reason code and a string? Open to ideas.

Reviewer 4: Ah fine. Ok. having just taken a pass on an early implementation, I like that there consistently be a problem details for any error condition. I think I understand how the async status vs the http code for the request fell out this way. objection withdrawn.

  / detail /        -2: "Operation locator is not in a valid form",
  / instance /      -3: "urn:ietf:params:scitt:error:invalidRequest",
  / response-code / -4: 400,
}
~~~

#### Status 404 - Operation Not Found

If no record of the specified running operation is found, the
Transparency Service returns a 404 response.

~~~
HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
application/concise-problem-details+cbor

{
  / title /         -1: "Operation Not Found",
  / detail /        -2: "No running operation was found matching the requested ID",
  / instance /      -3: "urn:ietf:params:scitt:error:notFound",
  / response-code / -4: 404,
}
~~~

#### Status 429

If a client is polling for an in-progress registration too frequently
then the Transparency Service MAY, in addition to implementing rate
limiting, return a 429 response:

~~~
HTTP/1.1 429 Too Many Requests
Content-Type: application/concise-problem-details+cbor
Retry-After: <seconds>

{
  / title /         -1: "Too Many Requests",
  / detail /        -2: "Only <number> requests per <period> are allowed.",
  / instance /      -3: "urn:ietf:params:scitt:error:tooManyRequests",
  / response-code / -4: 429,
}
~~~

### Resolve Receipt

> Authentication SHOULD be implemented for this endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Same remark as above.

Reviewer 2: But I realise now that this moved/updated, not new text, so the comment may be irrelevant depending on the merge ordering.

Author: Yes I'm expecting to merge this first, then yours, and the authentication statements will magically evaporate :-)

Reviewer 2: Sounds great, let's merge?

Request:

~~~ http-message
GET entries/67ed41f1de6a...cfc158694ed0befe HTTP/1.1
Host: transparency.example
Accept: application/cose
~~~

Response:

#### Status 200

If the Receipt is found:

~~~ http-message
HTTP/1.1 200 Ok
Location: https://transparency.example/entries\
/67ed41f1de6a...cfc158694ed0befe
Content-Type: application/cose

Payload (in CBOR diagnostic notation)

18([                            / COSE Sign1         /
  h'a1013822',                  / Protected Header   /
  {},                           / Unprotected Header /
  null,                         / Detached Payload   /
  h'269cd68f4211dffc...0dcb29c' / Signature          /
])
~~~

#### Status 404

If there is no Receipt found for the specified `EntryID` the
Transparency Service returns a 404 response:

~~~
HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
application/concise-problem-details+cbor

{
  / title /         -1: "Not Found",
  / detail /        -2: "Receipt with entry ID <id> not known to this Transparency Service",
  / instance /      -3: "urn:ietf:params:scitt:error:receipt:not-found",

>   / response-code / -4: 404,

Reviewer 2: I feel that this was maybe explained and I missed it, but I am wondering if there is more redundancy here than necessary?
Are the response code doing something more than the HTTP response codes? Are we making implementers have to deal with potentially inconsistent responses?
Why do we have title/detail/instance? I can see the point in short/long forms, but it's not clear what role the third value plays here.

Author: There's certainly a whiff of redundancy. I kept the `response-code` in because (unfortunately, but perhaps to some advantage) CoAP codes are slightly different to HTTP codes. 

I like `instance` because it offers a chance for richer machine-driven interpretation of errors, which feels useful given that our early implementers seem to be using things like no-code builders and GitHub actions for their environment.

Reviewer 2: How important/useful is it to use CoAP here? It seems to me that HTTP codes are expressive enough to capture all of what we do we with SCRAPI, but perhaps I am missing something?
100% agree on enabling machine-driven interpretation, but I haven't spotted an obvious situation where HTTP codes won't do the job (yet?), and I do suspect there is a benefit to keeping SCRAPI as simple as possible.

Reviewer 4: I also liked instance. 

when I did our implementation, having a response-code was useful in the aysnc operation status check. So that the request to check could have a 200/OK status, but the response content could be a problem details that indicated "still running" (aka 202/accepted). 

But the specific detail of it being CoAP was very not helpful. Commonly, some cloud service we interact with (database or block storage) would have an error case with a natural http status, that would need translating to CoAP. Not everything had a good translation (429 for example doesn't have a translation at all) so the choices were pretty arbitrary.

Keeping response-code as an optional part of the problem details, but specifying that it be the https status codes would be my preference based on the experience of doing our implementation.

Reviewer 2: > when I did our implementation, having a response-code was useful in the aysnc operation status check. So that the request to check could have a 200/OK status, but the response content could be a problem details that indicated "still running" (aka 202/accepted).

I am probably missing something obvious here, but the 202/200 distinction is enough for our implementation, I do not know what we would with an additional field.
Adding lots of redundant fields is at best a cost, and at worst a source of brittleness because it increases the chance that some won't be populated and/or read.

Reviewer 4: Ah, I think this has changed ? It was logical to me that "Resolve Receipt" should return 202 for "still running", but at the time I last looked I swear there were "strong opinions" that it was an abuse to use the status code like this (the request to check the status of the receipt has striclty speaking succeeded so should be 200). If that has been resolved, I don't think I would mis response-code and it would have made our implementation simpler (by a lot) to not have to deal with it.

Reviewer: Tagging @henkbirkholz, as I believe CoAP was his request ⬆️

Reviewer: If there's no quick resolution, I suggest deferring this to a separate issue to unblock merging this PR.

Request:

> ~~~ http-message

Reviewer: I'm wondering if we should lean into attached payloads, with the full content, or should lean into hashed payloads as the primary example, pointing to https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-cose-hash-envelope/

I've created #55 to track.
